README.md, before:


# M4 Macros for Electrical Circuit Diagrams in GROFF
These are modified m4 configuration files for electric circuit diagrams with groff macros. The original files meant for Latex can be found on https://www.ctan.org/tex-archive/graphics/circuit_macros.
This repo also includes a modified ms macro package `s.tmac` that adds a few things I like:
- A modified .NH macro for table of contents generation
- An automatic table of contents generator `.tc`
- Figure titles and auto counter `.Fs and .Fe "title"`
- Table titles and auto counter `.Ts and .Te "title"`
- Betters Lists `.Ls, .Li, and .Le`
- Code blocks in courier `.Ps and .Pe`

These things are heavily inspired (some modified, some not) from the extended macro package by Steve Talbott. Found this O'Reilly book :
https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/unix-text-processing/9780810462915/Chapter17.html
The book is great, would recommend for people who want to get into text processing and roff in general.

## M4 macro documentation
The documentation can be found on https://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.604.2295&rep=rep1&type=pdf. While this was intended for Latex, it works alright with groff, you only have to watch out for text formatting differences in labels.
## Instructions
If you would like to use my modified ms macros, change your /usr/share/groff/1.22.4/tmac/s.tmac to the one I have here. Note that out.m4 uses these modified macros so trying to use it may generate errors.
1. Put libgen.m4 and libcct.m4 in any directory
2. Put gpic.m4 in any directory (can be same as libgen.m4 and libcct)
3. Change the `-I` argument inside chroff to the directory containing libcct.m4 and libgen.m4
4. Change gpic.m4 argument in chroff accordingly
and with that the setup is done. To test it:
1. Copy example from documentation or write your own in a `.m4` file
2. make sure to include eqn $$ delimiters in that .m4 file (check my out.m4)
3. Run `sudo chmod +x chroff`
4. Run chroff <name_of_file_without extension>
5. check the PDF

For a quicker example, `chmod +x chroff` and run `chroff out` after cloning this repository.
voilà.
# To do list
s.tmac :
- Make a table index that is generated after the table of contents
- Make a figure index that is generated after the table index

.m4 :
- Keep using this until I find something that doesn't work well and fix it
- maybe make better macros ?

## Caveats
This was made by an EE student and is a work in progress, so expect spaghetti shell script. I regularly use this for lab reports and will improve it whenever I discover problems.

Commit message:

forgot another thing on to do list

README.md, after:


# M4 Macros for Electrical Circuit Diagrams in GROFF
These are modified m4 configuration files for electric circuit diagrams with groff macros. The original files meant for Latex can be found on https://www.ctan.org/tex-archive/graphics/circuit_macros.
This repo also includes a modified ms macro package `s.tmac` that adds a few things I like:
- A modified .NH macro for table of contents generation
- An automatic table of contents generator `.tc`
- Figure titles and auto counter `.Fs and .Fe "title"`
- Table titles and auto counter `.Ts and .Te "title"`
- Betters Lists `.Ls, .Li, and .Le`
- Code blocks in courier `.Ps and .Pe`

These things are heavily inspired (some modified, some not) from the extended macro package by Steve Talbott. Found this O'Reilly book :
https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/unix-text-processing/9780810462915/Chapter17.html
The book is great, would recommend for people who want to get into text processing and roff in general.

## M4 macro documentation
The documentation can be found on https://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.604.2295&rep=rep1&type=pdf. While this was intended for Latex, it works alright with groff, you only have to watch out for text formatting differences in labels.
## Instructions
If you would like to use my modified ms macros, change your /usr/share/groff/1.22.4/tmac/s.tmac to the one I have here. Note that out.m4 uses these modified macros so trying to use it may generate errors.
1. Put libgen.m4 and libcct.m4 in any directory
2. Put gpic.m4 in any directory (can be same as libgen.m4 and libcct)
3. Change the `-I` argument inside chroff to the directory containing libcct.m4 and libgen.m4
4. Change gpic.m4 argument in chroff accordingly
and with that the setup is done. To test it:
1. Copy example from documentation or write your own in a `.m4` file
2. make sure to include eqn $$ delimiters in that .m4 file (check my out.m4)
3. Run `sudo chmod +x chroff`
4. Run chroff <name_of_file_without extension>
5. check the PDF

For a quicker example, `chmod +x chroff` and run `chroff out` after cloning this repository.
voilà.
# To do list
s.tmac :
- Make a table index that is generated after the table of contents
- Make a figure index that is generated after the table index
- Have it so that I can choose which page to print which thing (toc on second page for example)

.m4 :
- Keep using this until I find something that doesn't work well and fix it
- maybe make better macros ?

## Caveats
This was made by an EE student and is a work in progress, so expect spaghetti shell script. I regularly use this for lab reports and will improve it whenever I discover problems.
